
=====PAGE 1=====
ATTA AT A
US005446747A.
e
United States Patent 15 [11] Patent Number: 5,446,747
Berrou [45] Date of Patent: Aug. 29, 1995
[54] ERROR-CORRECTION CODING METHOD FEC Burst Correction and ARQ Codes for Mobile
WITH AT LEAST TWO SYSTEMATIC Radio’ IEEE 1988 pp. 463-467.
CONVOLUTIONAL CODINGS IN G. Fettweis ‘Cascaded Feedforward Architectures for
PARALLEL, CORRESPONDING ITERATIVE Parallel Viterbi Decoding’ IEEE 1990 pp. 978-981.
DECODING METHOD, DECODING Iteratively Maximum Likelihood Decodable Spherical
MODULE AND DECODER Codes and a Method for their Construction. Gao et al.
TEEE 1988 pp. 480-485.
[75] Inventor: Claude Berrou, Le Conquet, France Dunscombe and Piper, Optimal Interleaving Scheme for
[73] Assignees: France Telecom; Telediffusion de Convo lutiond® Coding SUB. 1980; Electronics Letters
France S.A., both of France Battail, et al. Decodage Pondere des Codes Concatenes
[21] Appl. No.: 870,614 7 Avec Code Interieur Convolutif; Onzieme Colloque; Jun.
1987.
[22] Filed: Apr. 16, 1992 Mackenthun, Block orthogonal convolutional coding for
. _ . the Intelsat TDMA data channel, Comsat Technical
[30] Foreign Application Priority Data Review, Fall 1984.

Apr. 23, 1991 [FR] France cesssssssssssssessssssensse 9105280 Nakano, et al. New Decoding Methods of Interleaved
[51] Int. CLS 11/10 Burst Error-Correcting Codes, Electronics and Commu-
[52] U.S. CL. wc esssscsesenssseestesssssessesseee S7L/453 371/43; nications in Japan, Apr. 198 .

375/340 Primary Examiner—Robert W. Beausoliel, Jr.
[58] Field of Search .......cc0:s-. 371/43, 44, 45, 41, Assistant Examiner—Albert Decady
371/37.1; 375/59, 75, 94 Attorney, Agent, or Firm—Locke Reynolds
[56] References Cited a . oon 4 — he codi '
n error-correction method for the coding of source
U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS digital data elements to be transmitted or broadcast,
- - 3,652,998 3/1972 Forney, Jr. . notably in the presence of high transmission noise, the
4,677,625 6/1987 Betts et al. 0... cceeseesseee 371/43 method comprising at least two independent steps of
4,677,626 6/1987 Betts et Al. ceeeeeeeesseseesserseeeves 371/43 systematic convolutional coding, each of the coding
eer al 1371991 Yomunier Ct AL eeeessssetenssnnees 371730 Steps taking account of all of the source data elements,
,077, OFZII .oeessesceecseteeteneecneeseresners the method comprising at least one step for the tem-
5,157,671 10/1992 Karplus .......cssssscssesesesneee 371/43 . : :
5,263,051 11/1993 Eyubogli .............--.. 371/43 _PoFal interleaving of the source data elements, modify-
263, / yuboglu / : : .
5,287,374 2/1994 Pale cencusensesresnssnrrenrnee 371/43 ‘ing the order in which the source data elements are
5,289,501 2/1994 Seshadri et al... 375/17 taken into account for each of the coding steps, and a
corresponding iterative decoding method using, for the
FOREIGN PATENT DOCUMENTS decoding, at each iteration, an intermediate data ele-
0235477 9/1987 European Pat. Off. .... H03M 13/00 —« ment obtained by the combination of the received data
2616986 12/1988 France oss HO3M 13/12 element with a data element estimated during the previ-
iteration.
OTHER PUBLICATIONS ous meranon
Dr. G. Lomp et al ‘Projection Codes—A New Class of 22 Claims, 5 Drawing Sheets
> FIRST 11
| SYSTEMATIC ¥

=====PAGE 2=====
U.S. Patent Aug, 29, 1995 Sheet 1 of 5 5,446,747
X
d
11
FIRST 1;
12 SYSTEMATIC
CODING
TEMPORAL 13
INTERLEAVING | |
SECOND y
SYSTEMATIC g
CODING
Fig. 1
X
d
FIRST
CODING 7 15
INTERLEAVING Lo
0 Y
O
©
REGISTER
SECOND
14 SYSTEMATIC Y2
CODING
| Fig. 2
X,Y
DECODING - DECODING 2 DECODING i DECODING|_2
MODULE MODULE MODULE MODULE
Fig. 3 |

=====PAGE 3=====
U.S. Patent Aug. 29, 1995 Sheet 2 of 5 5,446,747
+. ° -
t ¢ ro) B 4 a. :
3 sis 5
WN > YQ
—! J
~ [oa
wi << ut <<
ES i
Z Z
us ws
z
So ° °
eS
ss}
QO. me kk Q. (o>)
~ HO Oo 7 vt
x Cw un <
x
wT
5
wn OQ &% .
‘| ZO
td ere) 00
ty ij
~ tc "A .
=r
ui oe
| ui
Y a. ©o ; VY)
| nr Q E ol tt
Ly x< > x rm
“one a x ob
N a ad
tl + = $ cE; &
< = =
aa
oa >- <4 wn
7
2 +
mm
+ AX 7
un
toot ge g |
5a Eb mn
<S roa oo v
Q am |
2. ~ >
-
+ SAT QZ
=
T\ rp deg
7)
rz
e e =~
= 2
a ot
se & °
8s

=====PAGE 4=====
U.S. Patent Aug, 29, 1995 Sheet 30f5 5,446,747 ©
BER a |
Oa Se ee es ee ee es ee ses se es Se ee ee es

Na RE RS SD ee Se
Pt ft i
SOIC oR EHH
BS NNN BD |
ASA
LWA LE P|
=a
_._| ber vi Bn | VIN | [| 0 ee ee ee
TTT ATES OEE
STAI ISSO 88
LEW ATL ENN CATT EPP
CT AIALLNN BNUEP LL
0% 7s Ee 6 ee 2 es ee Ht | RN AT
a a a ee
ft tt to UN NN _ Ot TO __
A Ok YO WO DG
a OO 0
PLU TA TTT PNT
LUN ALT LN | LN
Ht 61 Ag \
SS 6 04
A AO OE ON GO
a LULL an OU SAO |
ote TT PS
LEAN:
Se ON SR A | A GS A SO | NN A SN SS NT SAY DO
te Hi ee EE IE
A A A A SEE FN SY SS SS OA AS A
pt | bh tf wt EA NN TY
Pt tT hE TINE ETT TTX
PLLA ELE
10-6
1 2 3 4 Eb/No
(dB)
Fig. 5

=====PAGE 5=====
U.S. Patent Aug. 29, 1995 Sheet 4 of 5 5,446,747
BER ;
10' hs
DS) A DR
BR EE EE EE EEE E_EE._—=&
KWAN PS
TAS A st
CNW PRS
oe LAWS | EE sR
TOE EEE
Tg 692 op
| | Wat VR fT Wo ft ES ES ES .
TAS ONO
AAS 8
: SEARS | |
\ \
LL] WA SAIN EL
a a coe Ra SS A A GGG SD < G
oS EE SE
TTT ICV ONE
OO OY A Ne
Pt ELTA YL EET EIN
ot | LAWALL ELIN, ELEN
BS See eee
[| | ee | ee ee
TOTTI eT
| ee ee eee eee
a mi Ato! TL NINE |
714 a T7112
TrTTToTh—rT——T— EEF EET
——}+ +} ah EE AEE
PR OE SW | DOD QS DT
eS
PET EEE MET Ty ET ETT
FLEE AER LL
10%
1 2 3 4  Eb/No
(dB)
Fig. 6 |

=====PAGE 6=====
US. Patent Aug. 29, 1995 Sheet 5 of 5 5,446,747

dk Xk

[omer pemiercn
- N ! SHIFT REGISTER 82

ak ' ak-1 ! ak-2
t {
83 82a {1 828
| wa
81
Yk
Fig. 7

=====PAGE 7=====
5,446,747
1 2 |
’ more than two decoders are used, this rate will soon
ERROR-CORRECTION CODING METHOD WITH become very low.
AT LEAST TWO SYSTEMATIC CONVOLUTIONAL Besides, the technical making of these coders is rela- .
CODINGS IN PARALLEL, CORRESPONDING tively complex, notably as regards the clock signals
ITERATIVE DECODING METHOD, DECODING 5 associated with each code which have to be indepen-
MODULE AND DECODER dent.
With respect to decoders, it has already been indi-
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION cated that the algorithms generally used are maximum
1. Field of the Invention likelihood algorithms such as the Viterbi algorithm.
The field of the invention is that of the coding of 10 These algorithms take decisions in taking account of a
digital data belonging to a sequence of source data de- large number of received symbols. Clearly, the reliabil-
signed to be transmitted, or broadcast, notably in the ‘ty of the decision increases with the number of symbols
presence of transmission noise, and of the decoding of taken into account. By contrast, the higher the number,
coded data thus transmitted. the more complex is the decoder. The memory space
More specifically, the invention relates to a method 15 needed soon becomes very substantial, as do the corre-
of error correction coding that relies notably on a to- sponding computation times.
tally novel approach involving the concatenation of The integrated circuits that implement such algo-
several codes, and to a decoding method that enables rithms therefore most usually rely on a compromise
the making of modular decoders, with several levels of 5, between cost and performance characteristics. These
quality depending on the number of modules imple- industrial choices do not enable the construction of
mented. decoders that correspond optimally to a given applica-
The invention can be applied whenever where it is tion. It is, for example, not possible to make low-cost
necessary to transmit digital information with a certain decoders for applications where reception quality is not
degree of reliability. A preferred field of application of ,, vital, the integrated circuits having an excessively high
the invention is that of digital transmission on highly “" cost. Nor, on the other hand, are these integrated cir-
noise-ridden channels. For example, the invention may cuits adapted to the making of very high quality decod-
be implemented for the transmission and reception of ing receivers, for which the cost price is of little impor-
signals by satellite. It can also be used advantageously tance.
for spatial transmission towards or between spaceships
and/or space probes and,-more generally, whenever the 30 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
reliability of the decoding is of vital importance. How- It is an aim of the invention notably to overcome
ever, the invention can be applied similarly to any type these different drawbacks and limits of the prior art.
of transmission, by r.f. or by cable. More specifically, an aim of the invention is to pro-
Any digital signal, whatever may be its origin, can be 35 vide a method for the coding and a method for the
coded and decoded according to the invention. It may decoding of digital data with very high corrective ca-
be, for example, an image signal, a sound signal, a data pacity as compared with the known methods currently
signal or a multiplex of several distinct signals. used in digital communications systems.
2. Description of the Prior Art It is an object of the invention, notably, to provide
In a known way, signals such as these are generally 4) methods such as these that are particularly efficient,
coded by means of one or more convolutional coders. again in comparison with known methods, for transmis-
In the decoder, the original data elements are most sion in highly noise-ridden channels.
frequently reconstructed by means of a maximum likeli- A particular aim of the invention is to provide meth-
hood algorithm, for example a Viterbi algorithm, the ods such as these permitting highly reliable decoding of
decisions of which may possibly be weighted. 45 the received data, for example data transmitted by satel-
Convolutional codes are codes that associate at least lites or coming from space probes or spacecraft.
one coded data element with each source data element, A further aim of the invention is to provide methods
this coded data element being obtained by the summa- such as these, enabling the coding and decoding of data
tion modulo 2 of this source data element with at least at very high bit rates.
one of the preceding source data elements. Thus, each 59 The invention is also aimed at providing methods
coded symbol is a linear combination of the source data such as these, enabling the relatively easy manufacture
element to be coded and of previous data source ele- of coders and decoders as regards their performance
ments taken into account. The Viterbi algorithm, taking characteristics.
account of a sequence of received coded symbols, gives Notably, the invention is aimed at providing a coding
an estimation of each data element coded at transmis- 55 method such as this that implements several convolu-
sion, in determining the source sequence that most tional codes but requires only one clock, in the coder as
probably corresponds to the received sequence. well as the decoder. .
There also exists a known way of placing several Another aim of the invention is to provide a coding
coders in series, whether they are convolutional or not. method such as this that has very high overall coding
; In this case, the data elements coded by a first coder 60 efficiency rate.
feed a second coder which “overcodes”’ these data ele- The invention is further aimed at providing coding
ments. The decoding is obviously done symmetrically, and decoding methods that enable the making of high-
in starting with the second code. performance decoders which, nevertheless, can be eas-
This principle, known as that of the concatenation of _ ily manufactured on an industrial scale at acceptable
codes, has two types of drawbacks. Firstly, the overall 65 costs.
efficiency rate of the coders implementing concatenated Thus, a particular aim of the invention is to provide
codes is low. For example, in the case of two coders in methods such as these, enabling the implantation of the
series each having a rate 3, the overall rate will be 4. If decoding method on a surface area of silicon that is

=====PAGE 8=====
5,446,747
3 4
small enough for its industrial-scale manufacture to be _—‘ to obtain very good decoding quality, especially in the
possible (for example an area smaller than 50 mm). presence of high transmission noise. Besides, their sys-

The invention is also aimed at providing coding and tematic characteristic makes them very promissing for
decoding methods such as these that enable the making the implementation of the decoding method described
of numerous types of decoders, with performance char- 5 further below.
acteristics and cost prices that can vary as a function of Advantageously, each of said temporal interleaving
the requirements that they fulfil, and that use one or steps is followed by a delay step, said temporal inter-
more integrated circuits of a single type. leaving step taking account of the source data elements

In other words, an essential aim of the invention is to in the order in which said source data elements feed a
provide methods such as these that enable, firstly, prof- 10 first coding step and restoring them in a different order
itable industrial-scale manufacture based on the devel- _—to feed a second coding step, said delay step assigning,
opment of a single, relatively simple integrated circuit to each of said source data elements coming from said
and, secondly, the making of decoders that can be used temporal interleaving step, a delay equal to the latency
for a wide variety of applications. of decoding of data elements coded by said first coding

These aims, as well as others that shall be described 15 step.
hereinafter, are achieved according to the invention by These delays prove to be useful for the implementa-
means of a method for the error-correction coding of tion of an embodiment of the decoding method of the
source digital data elements, implementing in parallel at invention, as shall be seen hereinafter.
least two independent steps of systematic convolutional Advantageously, said temporal interleaving step im-
coding, each of said coding steps taking account of all of 20 plements at least one interleaving matrix in which said
said source data elements, the method comprising at source data elements are recorded in successive rows ;
least one step for the temporal interleaving of said (and columns respectively) and read in successive rows
source data elements, modifying the order in which said (and columns respectively).
source data elements are taken into account for each of This interleaving step enables all the source data
said coding steps. 25 elements to be taken into account and coded, but ac-

This method, hereinafter called method of “parallel cording to different sequences for the two codes. The
concatenation” coding, by contrast with the standard interleaving can therefore be done in a standard way, by
technique of “series concatenation” described in the | means of an interleaving matrix. However, the inven-
introduction, makes it possible, during the decoding, to tion proposes several possible adaptations of this tech-
have available symbols coming from two distinct de- 30 nique, aimed at improving the effectiveness of the inter-
coders. leaving.

The redundant codes used are of a systematic type. Thus preferably, at writing, the increment between
Each source data element is therefore also a convolu- —_‘ two rows (and columns respectively) and/or at reading,
tional coding symbol, and this symbol is shared by both the increment between two columns (and rows respec-
codes. 35 tively) is strictly greater than 1.

The dividing of the coding redundancy into several By necessity, these increments are naturally also rela-
parallel redundancies thus enables the artificial raising tively prime with the numbers of columns or rows of
of the overall efficiency rate of the code. For example, this matrix.

a “parallel concatenation” code with an efficiency rate Advantageously, at writing (and reading respec-
of 4 may actually contain codes with an efficiency rate 40 tively), said increment between two rows (and columns
of 3. In the standard method, namely the method of __ respectively) is a function of the position of the column
series concatenation, if the operation had involved the (or row respectively) during writing (or reading respec-
concatenation of two codes with an efficiency rate of 3, tively).

then the overall efficiency rate would have been 3. This technique has the favorable effect, during the

Another advantage of parallel concatenation codes as 45 decoding, of “breaking” the rectangularly arranged
compared with series concatenation codes is the sim- error packets with respect to which the decoding
plicity of the coding and decoding circuits, in relation to method is more vulnerable. This interleaving technique
the clock signals. shall be known hereinafter as the “dispersal technique”.

In a preferred embodiment, the coding method com- Indeed, the invention also relates to a method for the
prises a step for the systematic elimination, at predeter- 50 decoding of digital data elements received in coded
mined instants of transmission, of at least one coded data form and corresponding to source data elements com-
element produced by at least one of said coding steps. prising an iterative decoding procedure comprising:

The elimination step may, for example, consist of a a step for the decoding of an intermediate data ele- ;
periodic switching among said coding steps by which, ment representing a received data element, produc-
at each transmission instant, a single coded symbol is 55 ing a decoding data element, and
selected from among the set of symbols coded by each a step for the estimation of said received data element,
of said coding steps. by means of said decoded data element, producing

In this way, a single coded symbol is transmitted at an estimated data element, said intermediate data
each instant of transmission: there is no increase in the element being obtained, for the first iteration, by a
overall data bit rate. By contrast, the coding method of 60 combination of said received data element with a
the invention provides for the systematic transmission pre-determined value, and for the following itera-
of the source data at each instant of transmission. tions, by a combination of said received data ele-

This embodiment makes use of so-called pseudo-sys- ment with one of said data elements estimated dur-
tematic codes such as those described in the French ing the preceding iterations.
patent application No. 91 05278 entitled “Pseudo-Sys- 65 This method can be used to make decoders formed by
tematic Error-Correction Convolutional Coding a cascade of identical modules, each module corre-
Method, Decoding Method and Corresponding De- sponding to an iteration. It is clear that the efficiency
vices”, filed on 23rd Apr. 1991. These codes can be used rate of the decoding directly depends on the number of

=====PAGE 9=====
5 5,446,747 6
iterations made and hence on the number of modules element delivered by the second decoding step. Thus,
used. It is thus possible to define several levels of quali- the additive noises of the source data element and of the
ties of receivers, simply by varying the number of mod- _— estimated data element are practically completely
ules. , decorrelated. ~

Each module therefore has the task of computing, in 5 Preferably, said estimation step is followed, before
addition to the decoded data element, anew estimation _said de-interleaving step, by a logarithmic compression
of the data element emitted. This variable is used from _gtep,
the next module onwards. This logarithmic compression is designed to place

Advantageously, said estimation step assigns said emphasis, in terms of sampling vrecision, on the oitical
estimated data element an additive noise decorrelated 10 values, namely on the values close to zero, when the
from the noise assigned to said received data element. values are coded between —n and +n.

Thus, the data element taken into account during the In an advantageous embodiment of the invention,
following iteration, which is a combination of the re- said first decoding step is followed by a step for the
ceived data element and of the estimated data element, ultiplication of said first decoded data el tb
is affected by an overall noise that is less disturbing than 15 m fie hat is strict erement by a
in the preceding iteration. he nak B 5 hn is eck y greater than 1. f

In a preferred embodiment of the invention, said h © ond d t odi coe the nt Bis to gi ve ete erence, for
predetermined value is neutral or zero and said combi- the second decoding, to the values coming tom the first
nations are, for iterations other than the first one, sum- decoder, in relation to the coded values received, af-
mations of said received data element and of the last 20 fected by a greater noise because they are given directly
estimated data element. by the transmission channel. ; .

In the case of a decoding of data coded according to Preferably, said coefficient Bis variable as a function
a method that carries out the joint transmission of of the signal-to-noise ratio of the transmission channel.

; source data elements and redundancy data elements Advantageously, said decoding step or steps imple-
coded for example by means of the already mentioned 25 Ment maximum likelihood decoding algorithms of the
“pseudo-systematic” codes, it is advantageous for said Viterbi algorithm type with weighted decisions.
decoding step to take account of all the received data, It is possible, notably, to use the decoding method
elements, source data elements and coded data ele- | described in the contemporaneously filed U.S. applica-
ments, but said estimation step is applied solely to the _ tion Ser. No. 07/870,483, now U.S. Pat. No. 5,406,570,
estimation of said source data elements. 30 entitled “Method For The Decoding Of A Maximum

According to a particular embodiment of the inven- _— Likelihood Convolutional Code With Decision
tion, of the type carrying out the decoding of data Weighting And Corresponding Decoder” claiming the
coded according to a coding method implementing two Convention priority of the French patent application
redundant coding steps in parallel, the first coding step FR 91 05279, filed on Apr. 23, 1991, incorporated
carrying out a first redundant coding on all the source 35 herein by reference.
data taken in their natural order and the second coding Advantageously, the decoding method also includes
step carrying out a second redundant coding on all the —_ a demultiplexing step directing the received coded data
source data taken in an order modified by a temporal _— elements towards said appropriate decoding steps and
interleaving step, the decoding method comprises the _ transmitting zero values at the decoding steps for which
following consecutive steps: 40 no data element has been transmitted.

first decoding according to said first redundant cod- This step is useful when coded data elements are

ing, as a function of at least one of said intermediate _—gelectively non-emitted at certain instants of transmis-
data elements and of at least one coded data ele- sion.
ment produced by said first coding step, producing The invention also relates to a decoding module car-
a first coded data element, — _ 4 ying out an iteration of the decoding procedure de-
See erot decoding’. identical io eae antereaving scribed here above. A module such as this comprises at
least two inputs, corresponding to at least one received
second decoding according to said second redundant data element and to at least one estimated data element,
° : . and at least two outputs corresponding to at least one
coding, as a function of at least one of said first 50 decoded data element and at least one estimated data
lecoded and de-interleaved data elements and of at : 5 -
least one coded data element produced by said clement, Tt is capable of being cascaded with at least one
Siemens step, producing a second coded data A module may notably be made in integrated circuit
estimation of the received source data element, as a 55 form. Such a circuit takes up a surface area of silicon
function of at least one of said first and second that is small enough to enable easy, reliable and low-
decoded data elements, producing an estimated  ©°St industrial-scale manufacture.
data element; The feature of modularity makes it possible to pro-
de-interleaving, symmetrical to said interleaving step, vide for any type of application on the basis of a a single
of said estimated data elements. 60 integrated circuit. In cases requiring only a low level of

Advantageously, said estimation step consists in de- protection, or when the channel is little affected by
termining the variable (d2 x(X1)—(X2))/d2—1) where: noise, only one module may be sufficient. By contrast,

do is the free distance of said second redundant cod- _in special cases where reliability is an essential factor

ing; and/or the transmission noise is high, for example in the

X1and Xz are the data elements decoded by said first 65 case of data transmitted by an interstellar probe, ten or

and second decoding steps. more modules may be cascaded.

This function removes the contribution related to the The invention also relates to decoders implementing
source data element from the result of the decoded data one or more of these modules.

=====PAGE 10=====
5,446,747
7 8
different sequences, through of the interleaving tech-

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS nique. This interleaving may be obtained in a standard

Other features and advantages of the invention shall way by means of an interleaving matrix in which the
appear from the following description of a preferred source data elements are introduced row by row and
embodiment of the invention, given by way of a non- 5 restored column by column. As shall be seen further
restrictive illustration, and from the appended drawings below, the invention nevertheless proposes novel im-
of which: provements to this interleaving method, designed nota-

FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustating the basic princi- bly to clearly separate the errors, at decoding.
ple of the coding method of the invention, called “paral- Besides, any other technique that enables the order of
lel concatenation” coding; 10 the source data elements to be modified may be used in

FIG. 2 shows a particular embodiment of a coder this temporal interleaving module 12.
according to the method illustrated in FIG. 1, providing In the embodiment shown in FIG. 1, a data element
for a redundancy of 100%; X, equal to the source data element d, is transmitted

FIG. 3 is a block diagram of the basic principle of a systematically. This is a feature necessary for the mak-
modular decoder according to the invention, with four 15 ing of the decoding modules as described further below.
modules; In this case, the coding modules 11 and 13 preferably

FIG. 4 is a detailed block diagram of a preferred use codes such as those described in the already men-
embodiment of a module of FIG. 3, when the data ele- tioned French patent application No. FR 91 05278.
ments are coded by means of the coder of FIG. 2; These codes, known as “pseudo-systematic codes” are

FIGS. 5 and 6 show results obtained by means of a 20 characterized by the fact that the source data element is
decoder using the modules of FIG. 4, as a function of — transmitted systematically, jointly with at least one
the number of cascaded modules, in the case of an ideal coded data element or redundancy symbol.
decoder (FIG. 5) and a decoder that can be implanted These redundancy symbols are constructed in such a
on the integrated circuit (FIG. 6). way that the free distance of the code is the maximum.

FIG. 7 shows an example of a “pseudo-systematic” 25 They do not take account, as is usually done in the
coding module, having a constraint length v=2 and an convolutional codes, of a series of previous source data
efficiency rate R=4, that can be used in the coder of — elements, but of a series of auxiliary data elements ob-
FIG. 1. tained by the mathematical combination of the source

data element considered with at least one of the previ-
MORE DETAILED DESCRIPTION 30 ous auxiliary data elements.

The present invention relies on two novel concepts, These novel codes can be used to obtain excellent
namely a coding method simultaneously carrying out performance characteristics in terms of error rate.
several coding operations, in parallel, and a method of An example of a coder (having a constraint length
iterative coding. v=2 and efficiency rate R=3) implementing this tech-

Taken in combination, these two features display a 35 nique is illustrated in FIG. 7.
very high degree of synergy, making it possible to ob- This coder associates two coded values Xx and Yx to
tain a particularly low error rate at decoding, notably each source data element dx.
an error rate that is far smaller than those obtained with The data element X; is systematically taken to be
known decoders of equivalent complexity, especially in equal to the source value dx.
the presence of high transmission noise. 40 The data element Y;is computed by means of a com-

However, it is clear that these features may be imple- bination 81 of at least two binary elements contained in
mented independently without going beyond the scope a shift register 82. By contrast, in its cells 82,4 and 82,,
of the invention. It shall be seen further below that it is the shift register 82 contains not the previous source
possible, according to the embodiment described, to values dx—i, dx—2, but distinct intermediate values
make decoders with only one module: this would corre- 45 ax—1, ag—2.
spond to a non-iterative decoding. The essential characteristic of the invention is indeed

FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of a coder implement- that of determining the coded value of Yx, on the basis
ing the method of the invention, in an example where of particular values a, obtained by a mathematical com-
two distinct codes are used in parallel. bination and, for example, an exclusive OR gate 83, of

Each source data element d to be coded is directed, 50 the source data element dx with at least one of the pre-
firstly, towards a first coding module 11 and, secondly, ceding intermediate values a,_1 (contrary to the known
towards an temporal interleaving module 12 which convolutional coding methods which take direct ac-
itself feed a second coding module 13. count of the series of the preceding source values).

According to this method, it is seen, therefore, that This, in a way, amounts to performing a feedback on
there are at least two coded data elements Y; and Y2, 55 the source values dx. It is seen that this feedback makes
coming from distinct coders 11 and 13, associated with it possible to obtain performance characteristics greater
each source data element. It is clear that the number of than those of classic coders while, at the same time,
coders, limited herein to two, can easily be increased requiring only the addition of an exclusive-OR gate 83
according to the same principle. to these coders.

The modules 11 and 13 may be of any known system- 60 It appears that this gain can be attributed notably to
atic type. They are advantageously convolutional cod- the fact that it is only very rarely that the positions of
ers taking account of at least one of the preceding the tranmission errors in a sequence of received data are
source data elements for the coding of the source data completely decorrelated. The application of a combina-
element d. The codes implemented in these modules 11 tion by exclusive-OR operations on these data elements
and 13 may be identical or, preferably, different. 65 may then lead to the cancellation of certain of these

An essential feature of the invention is that the coded errors.
data elements Y; and Y2 take account of the same source Numerous simulations with codes having different
data elements d, but these are considered according to constraint lengths and/or efficiency rates have shown

=====PAGE 11=====
9 5,446,747 10
that in every possible instance this “pseudo-systematic”’ geous for the row-skip increment, which is always rela-
coding method has performance characteristics supe- tively prime with ng, to be a function of the place of the
rior to those of standard convolutional coders, equiva- _ column considered. This makes it possible to break the
lent in terms of efficiency rate and constraint length, rectangularly afranged error packets.
notably when the signal received is highly noise- 5 It is naturally possible to use other interleaving tech-
infested (Es/No smaller than or equal to 3 dB). ; niques, including notably the habitual method using

The principle of “parallel concatenation” coding = writing and reading increments equal to 1, without
according to the invention has notably two advantages suing beyond the scope of the invention. It is moreover
over the standard coding with serial concatenation, a8 —Cjear that the roles of the rows and columns may be
mentioned lead; he overal ct ofthe od 10 lave

ene 4 ree . . The data elements coming from the interleaving mod-
are simpler as regards their c lock sign. als. Inde ed, in the ule 12 are then delayed by a fixed duration so as to
case of “parallel concatenation”, all the circuits work at :
one and the same: that of the data bit rate. compensate for the latency 11 of the coding module

FIG. 2 illustrates a particular embodiment of a coder 15 Seley pene th euch ae stat resister with Rect ne

h is, desi i ments ‘ aan i: 1
ec hs deg rhe coding of dat enn Sm daly nae pel upto

: : interleaving module 12.
Mie eaaple let ne wor 1G. with an overall The decoding method according to the invention
efficiency rate R higher than or equal to } (a typical 49 shall now be presented with reference to FIG. 3.
value of R is ) implementing two codes with respective This decoding method has the essential characteristic
elementary rates Ri and Ro=(RRi)/(RR1+R1i—R), Ri of being iterative. At each iteration, the decoding of at
and R2 being both higher than 4. least one intermediate data element is done. Then, using

At each instant of transmission, this coder emits two notably the decoded data element, an estimation of the
digital symbols, for example binary symbols, X and Y. ,, data element to be decoded is determined. During the
The symbol X is systematically taken to be equal to the 25 next iteration, an identical decoding is done on an inter-
source data element d, and the symbol Y is a redun- mediate data element obtained by the combination of
dancy symbol. the received data element with the estimated data ele-

This symbol Y is equal either to the value Y, coming ment. If the coding method and the estimation method
from the first coding module 11 or to the value Y2 30 are well chosen it turns out to be the case, as shall be
coming from the coding module 13. A selection module seen further below, that the decoding quality is a func-
15 carries out a periodic switching between the outputs tion of the number of iterations made.

Yi and Y2. The periodicity of the switching is fixed by The essential advantage of this iterative method is
the two efficiency rates Ry and Rzin such a way thatthe —_ that it enables the making of modular decoders. It is
symbols X and Y effectively contain two codes with ,, indeed possible to define modules decoding 31) to 314 as
efficiency rate Ri and Ro. illustrated in FIG. 3. Each module carries out an itera-

For example, for code efficiency rates Rij=3/5 and’ tion of the decoding method. Thus, by cascading n
R2=4, the sequences of data elements transmitted may — modules, n iterations of the method are made.
be: The module 31; has at least two inputs: the received

49 data element X to be decoded and a data element Zp,
Cy OE y's representing this received data element X, estimated by
Yi Yin Yoia Vita Yin Yes woe the previous module Sieh and two outputs: ee ate

mate element Zp, and the decoded value s, taken
. . . into account solely at output of the last module. For the
r ally be Creadened. The chee ned ule 35 mone veel 45 first module 31), the data element Z1 is fixed at a prede-
two coding modules, the selection may be done so as to termined value of ZETO. Advantageously, the data ele-
provide for the transmission of a number m of coded syabot "x while at the oo ie eine affected by an
roncats aroused, Besides this ng the 2 coded - additive noise decorrelated from that affecting the re-
may also carry out a puncturing of coded data elements, 50 ceived data element X. Thus, as and when the iterations
with the data element (or data elements) Y not being  2%€ done, the influence of the noise is increasingly
transmitted at predetermined instants of transmission. smaller, and the error aa 1s “ht odule reduces. ac
; n other embodiments, each module may -
co ou a clement 4a ried count of svc Gata deen Zy const ding the
i i ix j ing. The 55 preceding steps, or even ese data elements. The
ahs module 12 carries © by tuecessivenowe ine “nem. combination with the received data element X may be a
ory with a size ngxng, and restored by successive col- simple summation or a weighted summation. It is possi-
umns. This technique is described, for example, by Dun- ble to consider, for example, giving a variable weight to
scombe E. and Piper F.C., “Optimal Interleaving the different estimated values Zp. These variable
Scheme For Convolutional Coding” in Electronic Let- 60 weights may also vary as a function of certain criteria,
ters, Vol. 25, No. 22, October 1989. such as the signal to noise ratio.

As this article shows, the effectiveness of the inter- The modular structure of the invention notably has
leaving for small values (some tens) of ngis improved if two advantages. First of all, it makes it possible to de-
the succession of rows and columns is done by anincre- _ fine several qualities of decoders, on one and the same
ment of more than 1 and, necessarily, relatively prime 65 basis, simply by varying the number of modules. This
with ne. also enables the efficiency rate of an existing decoder to

The invention proposes a novel improvement to this be increased easily by the addition of one or more mod-
interleaving method. It is seen indeed that it is advanta- ules should the need arise.

=====PAGE 12=====
“ 5,446,747 v

The different modules work according to the so- than 1. This multiplication by 8 makes it possible to give
called “pipe-line” technique. Each module works per- preference, for the second decoding, to the data ele-
manently on different data elements. The addition ofa _—_ ments 45 coming from the first decoder 43 in relation to
module does not disturb the working of its predeces- _ the data elements (Y2), affected by a greater noise since
sors. It only slightly lengthens the total decoding time 5 they have come directly from the transmission channel.
by the duration needed for its own operations. The factor B may be fixed. However, it is advanta-
_ Besides, this structure requires the designing and — geously variable, and depends on the signal-to-noise
industrial-scale manufacture of only one decoding mod- ratio of the transmission channel. It is furthermore clear
ule, in the form of a relatively simple integrated circuit that this multiplier is not obligatory for the implementa-
that does not require an excessively large surface area of 10 tion of the invention. It makes it possible, however, to
silicon. Its cost is therefore not prohibitive, especially as substantially improve the performance characteristics.
it can be used for a very wide range of applications. The data elements 46 multiplied by 13 are then inter-
Depending on need, it is the number of modules and no leaved, by means of a matrix 47 with a size nexngsimilar
longer the structure of the modules that will be variable. to that used by interleaver 12 of FIG. 2 during the

Tt must be noted that the iterative conception of the 15 coding. This matrix gives, at output, the value (X2)p
method of the vente m fe way Proves the maxing which is directed towards a second decoder 48, which
Indeed. cach a ocie hee a veceived Ga i Smput an d - also takes account of the data elements (Y2)p, given by
4 ’ P the demultiplexing and insertion means 42. This second

ecoded data output S. decoder 48 : t the decodi spondine to
. FIG. 4 shows a particular embodiment of a module 29 ecoder os Carries Out the decoding corresp &

, : : . ws the second coder 13 of FIG. 2. It is built in such a way
according to the invention, having very promising per- that the scale at its input is B tim ter than that
formance characteristics as can be seen from the curves at the scale at is Inpu (%2) is 8 times greater than tha
of FIGS. 5 and 6, commented upon further below. of its input (Y2). : . :

This module is designed for the decoding of data It must be noted that while the coding takes Place in
elements coded and transmitted by means of the coder 25 parallel, gue decoding takes place account ans, the
of FIG. 2. : "

A p order module such as this therefore possesses: ceived data element (X)p but of the decoded, and natu-

3 inputs: (X)p, (Y)p and (Z)p rally interleaved, data element (X2)p which is farmore |

4 outputs: (X)pi1, (Y)p+t, (Z)p+1, and (S)p. reliable. Besides, it is for thi reason that this data ele-

The variables (X), (Y) and (Z) are ideally real vari- 39 Ment Has its value increased by the multiplier 44.
ables and, in meet, samples coded on n bits (typically Advantageously, the two decoders 43 and 48 imple-
n==4), The variable (S), which represents the output of | ment a maximum likelihood decoding method, of the
the module, is binary. The decision of the complete type using the Viterbi algorithm with weighted deci-
decoder is given by the output (S) of the last module. As Sions. .
regards the first module, the input variables (X); and 35 _ A preferred embodiment uses decoders such as those
(Y)1 are given by the corresponding symbols of the described in the contemporaneously filed U.S. applica-
coder, after transmission and demodulation. Its input ron Ser. w. aie een Method a
(Z)1 is set at a neutral value (zero weight). ecoding aximum 2 latele! nVOMMON:

In this module, the data elements at input (X)p and Code With Decision Weighting And Corresponding
(Z)pare added by a summator 41 to give the intermedi- 49 Decoder”, claiming the Convention priority of the
ate data element (X1)p, which will be used for the de- | French patent application FR 91 05279, filed on Apr.
coding instead of the received data element (X)p. Ashas 23, 1991, incorporated hereby reference.
already been emphasized, the data elements (X)p and ki These decoders notably implement two distinct trel-
(Z)p may be weighted if necessary. ses. [he decision 1s taken, in a standard way, by trac-

The data element (X), is transmitted to demultiplex- 45 ing back the optimal path in the first trellis. The
ing and insertion means, the role of which is to separate weighting is then determined by continuing to trace
the redundancy (Z;) produced by the coder 11 (FIG. 2) back the optimal path and its concurrent path in the
and the redundancy (Y2) produced by the coder 13, and second trellis.
to insert neutral values, with zero weight, in the place of According to the method of the above-mentioned
the unavailable values (Y). 50 application, the weighting values are advantageously

The data elements (X1)pand (Y1)pare transmitted to a subjected to a logarithmic compression. However, in
first decoder 43, carrying out the decoding correspond- _ the case of the presently described module, it has been
ing to the coder 11. This decoder 43 is built in such a seen that it is preferable for only the first decoder 43 to .
way wy. se scale at ils input (Xi) is couble that i) use this law of sOgarithmic compression. a is Postponed,
input (Y1), so as to e account of the fact that (X1) 55 so to speak, in the case of the second decoder as s e
represents the summation of the two values (X) and (Z). seen further below.

The output 45 of the decoder 43 is transmitted to a The data elements (X3)p produced by the second
subtractor 411 which takes the difference 412 between decoder 48 are fed into a de-interleaving matrix 49,
this output 45 and the input (Z) considered at a homoge- having a size ngxnz, fulfilling the dual function of inter-
neous instant, by means of the shift register 410. As a 60 leaving 48 and of giving the decoded data elements (S)p.
matter of fact, (Z) being an information element pro- These decoded data elements (S), are naturally taken
duced and used by the second decoder 48 (described — into account only at output of the last module which
hereinafter) of the preceding module, it is indeed prefer- shows the lowest error rate, except in the case of tests,
able not to apply it again during subsequent iterations, for example to determine the number of modules
in the case of a decoder having at least two decoding 65 needed for a given application.
modules. The data elements (X3), are furthermore directed

The difference 412 is then transmitted to a multiplier towards the block 50 for estimating the value (X)p at
44 which multiplies this value 412 by a factor 8 greater —_—input. This block 50 also takes account of the corre-

=====PAGE 13=====
B 5,446,747 14

sponding value (X'2),, the input of the second decoder The curves 61; to 615 of FIG. 5 and 71; to 715 of FIG.
48 memorized in a shift register 51, acting as a delay _—6 respectively show the outputs (S), of a circuit of five
line. This register 51 with a length L2, L2 being the identical modules. By way of comparison, we have also
latency of the second decoder 48, is designed to com- = shown the curves 62 corresponding to a non-coded
pensate for the decoding time of this decoder 48 so that 5 transmission, and the curves 63 and 64 corresponding to
the module 50 considers the input data (X"2)) and output the correction curves of the simple standard codes with
data (X3), elements of the second decoder at homogene- _ constraint lengths v=4 and v=6 respectively.
ous ‘instants. These curves enable several conclusions to be drawn.

This estimation block 50 therefore has the role of _ It is seen first of all that, when there is a high transmis-
determining an estimation (Z), of the emitted symbol X. 10 sion noise, the results obtained are exceptionally better
This estimation is done so that the variable (Z)p is af- that those obtained by known techniques. Thus, for
fected by additive noise decorrelated from the one af- example, for an error rate of 10-5 it is seen that the gain
fecting the symbol (X). (Z)pis taken into account inthe _—is greater than 1.5 dB for a two-module decoder and
following module (p+1). Thus, in this module (p+1), greater than 2.5 dB for a five-module decoder, as com-
the first decoder processes a virtual code with an effi- 15 pared with a standard decoder having a constraint
ciency rate Ri1/(1+R1), Ri being the efficiency rate of length v=6 (while the codes used for the simulation of
the first coder 11 of FIG. 2. the performance characteristics of the invention have

The decorrelation between the additive noises of constraint lengths of v=4).
(X)pand (Z)p may be done, for example, by a function g It is also seen that the performance characteristics of
which removes the contribution related to (X)pfrom the 29 2 decoder of the invention are better than those of
result (X3), of thé second decoder 48. The function gis known decoders, once an error rate of the order of
advantageously the following: 10-4 is aimed at, even when only one module is used

(curves 61; and 714).

BAD)» (X3)p)= (2) — 2) Ado — 1) 95 Finally, it can noted that each module added can be
where dz is the free distance of the second code. pecachine Ghanwon’s tinie woich ihe “ee ding, in ap"
rithmie compression, precisely the one eliminated in the 2 efficiency rate of J. Using this series of curves 61; to
second decoder 48, of the values g((X2)p, (X3)p) The ae Scrending . se erticalar application. neces-
values thus obtained are transmitted to a de-interleaving 30 ; : : . a. .
matrix, identical to the matrix 49 and giving the output The losses in performance, at high noise levels, in the ,
(Z)p+1- example of modules that can be integrated (curves Tl

The p order module furthermore carries out the  ‘' ts) to resation to the idea! ont ihe & almost entirely
transmission of the received data elements (X) and (Y), _ T#ated to the very lmited size of the interleaving ma-
with delays enabling outputs to be se ssonted at homo- 35 ‘tix. Indeed, small-sized (31X31) matrices have been
geneous instants, for the following p+1 order module. Chosen so as to limit the surface area of silicon used.
Each module therefore includes two shift registers 53 With matrices such as these, the surface area of silicon
and 54 respectively for the data elements (X) and (¥).  0ccupied is of the order of 30 mm?. Experience shows,
These shift registers act as delay lines and have alength | however, that bigger matrices, having sizes of the order
of: 4g Of 100X 100 (corresponding to ROMs of quite standard

L}+L2+2n,2, so as to compensate for: sizes) can be ren to greatly improve performance char.

. acteristics, while at the same time remaining wi
re Ietency ni of the interlesvane © ix 47; limits that are quite acceptable from the viewpoint of
the latency L2 of the first decoder 48; the industrial-scale manufacture of an integrated circuit.
the latency ng2 of the de-interleaving matrices 49 45 | What is claimed is:
and 52, 1. A method for error-correction coding of source

FIGS. 5 and 6 show the results obtained by means of _ digital data elements, comprising the steps of:

a decoder fitted out with such modules, for a code with implementing at least two independent and parallel
an efficiency rate 4 of the type 3/5(v=4)/2(v=4), ie. a ors of ey stematic Convolutional cons: each or
arallel concatenation of two codes with efficiency 50 said coding steps iB account 0; OF Sat
rates 3/5 and §, at constraint lengths v=4. The x-axis of source data elements and providing parallel out-

the curves represents the signal-to-noise ratio E,/No on puts of distinct series of coded data elements;

the transmission channel (Ep: energy received per useful and temporally interleaving said ere data clements ;
. bit; No: monolateral spectral density of noise). The y- to modify the order in which said source data ele-

axis represents the observed binary error me The 55 ments are taken into account for at least one of said

curves show the results of decoding obtained by simula- c ig steps.

tion of a Gaussian channel, the demodulation being 2. A method according to claim 1, comprising a step

coherent. of systematically eliminating, at predetermined instants

FIG. 5 corresponds to an ideal decoder, working on of transmission, at least one | coded Gala element of at
real variables and with large-sized interleaving. FIG. 6 60 least one of said series of coded data elements.
presents the case of a decoder that can be integrated 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said elimi-
into an integrated circuit, the main characteristics of | nation step consists of periodically switching among
which are as follows: said parallel outputs by which, at each transmission

; sample coded on four bits; instant, a single coded data element is selected from
trellis length for each decoder: 58, including 35 revi- 65 among the distinct series of coded data elements.

sion stages for the weighting; 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein each of

B=155; said temporal interleaving steps is followed by a delay-

interleaving with dispersal: 31X31. ing step,

=====PAGE 14=====
5,446,747
15 16
said delaying step assigning, to each of said source transmitting zero values at the decoding steps for which
data elements coming from said temporal interleav- no data element has been transmitted.
ing step, a delay equal to a time of latency for cod- 16. A method according to claim 10, of the type car-
ing the data elements coded by said first coding —_rying out the decoding of a first and a second series of
step. 5 received data elements representing source data coded

5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said tem- according to a coding method implementing two redun-
poral interleaving step implements at least one inter- dant coding steps in parallel, the first coding step carry-
leaving matrix in which said source data elements are _—ing out a first redundant coding on all the source data
recorded in successive rows and read in successive taken in natural order and the second coding step carry-
rows. 10 ing out a second redundant coding on all the source data

6. A method according to claim 5 wherein, at writing, taken in an order modified by a temporal interleaving
two successive source data are written in between two _— step to produce two distinct series of coded data ele-
rows selected according to an increment which is ments, wherein said decoding method comprises the
strictly greater than 1. consecutive steps of:

7. A method according to claim 6, wherein said incre- 15 _ first decoding according to said first redundant cod-
ment between two rows is a function of the position of ing the first series of received data elements taken
the column during writing. together with at least one of said intermediate data

8. A method according to claim 5 wherein, at read- elements to produce a series of first decoded data
ing, two successive source data are read in two columns elements;
selected according to an increment which is strictly 20 temporally interleaving, identical to said interleaving
greater than 1. step of the coding method, said first decoded data

9. A method according to claim 8, wherein said incre- elements to form a series of decoded de-interleaved
ment between two columns is a function of the position data elements;
of the row during reading. 25 second decoding according to said second redundant

10. A method for decoding received digital data ele- coding said decoded de-interleaved data elements
ments representing source data elements coded accord- and the second series of received data elements to
ing to the coding method of claim 1, wherein said de- produce a series of second decoded data elements;
coding method comprises an iterative decoding proce- estimating the source data from at least one of said
dure comprising the steps of: 30 series of first and second decoded data elements to

in a first iteration, combining each of said received produce a series of estimated data elements; and

digital data elements with a predetermined value to de-interleaving, symmetrical to said interleaving step,
form an intermediate data element, said estimated data elements.

decoding the intermediate data element representing 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein said

each received data element to produce a decoded 3, estimating step consists in determining the variable
data element, (d2-(X1) —(X2))/(d2— 1) where:

estimating said source data element, by means of said d2 is the free distance of said second redundant cod-

decoded data element, to produce an estimated ing;

data element, X,and X2 are the data elements decoded by said first
and for all subsequent iterations, combining each of 49 and second decoding steps.

said received data elements with one of said esti- 18. A method according to claims 16, wherein said

mated data elements estimated during a preceding estimation step is followed, before said de-interleaving

iteration. step, by a logarithmic compression step.

11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said 19. A method according to claim 16, wherein said
estimating step assigns to said estimated data element an 45 first decoding step is followed by a step of subtracting,
additive noise decorrelated from noise assigned to said from said first decoded data element, said estimated
received data element. data element.

12. A method according to claim 10, wherein said 20. A method according to claim 16, wherein said
predetermined value has a zero weight, having no effect __ first decoding step is followed by a step for the multipli-
on said decoding, and said combinations are, for itera- 59 cation of said first decoded data element by a coefficient
tions other than the first one, summations of said re- B that is strictly greater than 1.
ceived data element and of the estimated data element 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein said
estimated in the immediately preceding iteration. coefficient B varies as a function of a signal-to-noise

13. A method according to claim 10, applied to de- _—sratio of a transmission channel.
coding of data coded according to a method carrying 55 22. A decoding module for carrying out an iteration
out a joint transmission of source data elements and of a decoding procedure comprising at least two inputs,
coded redundancy data elements, wherein said decod- corresponding to at least one received data element and
ing step takes account of all the received data elements, to at least one estimated data element, and at least two
source data elements and coded data elements, and outputs corresponding to at least one decoded data
wherein said estimation step is applied solely to the 60 element and to at least one estimated data element,
estimation of said source data elements. wherein said module is capable of being cascaded

14. A method according to claim 10, wherein said with at least one other identical module, each mod-
decoding step or steps implement maximum likelihood ule comprising:
decoding algorithms of the Viterbi algorithm type with means for summation of the inputs corresponding
weighted decisions. 65 to said received data element and to said esti-

15. A method according to claim 10, including a mated data element;
demultiplexing step directing the received coded data first decoding means for decoding of data elements
elements towards said appropriate decoding steps and coded according to a first redundant coding,

=====PAGE 15=====
5,446,747
17 18
. . first de-interleaving means for de-interleaving the
. taking account of the data elements coming from data elements coming from said estimation
said summation means; means; . . .
; ; second de-interleaving means for de-interleaving
first interleaving means for interleaving the data 5 the data elements coming from said second de-
: : . . coding means, delivering the data elements de-
elements coming from said first decoding means; coded in their original order; and
second decoding means for decoding data coded delay means designed to compensate for latencies
. . of the decoding means, interlacing means and
according to a second redundant coding; 10 de-interlacing means so that all the data elements
means for estimating said received data element or coming from said module correspond to one and
the same instant of reception.
elements; + * * * *
15
20
25
30
35
40
45 ,
50
55
60
65
