
=====PAGE 1=====
2001-01-18 
IEEE 802.16.3c-01/14 
 
 
   
0
 
Project 
IEEE 802.16 Broadband Wireless Access Working Group <http://ieee802.org/16> 
Title 
Turbo Code Comparison (TCC v TPC) 
Date 
Submitted 
2001-01-17 
Source(s) 
Brian Edmonston 
iCODING Technology Inc. 
11770 Bernardo Plaza Ct, 466 
San Diego, CA 92128 
Voice: 858-487-5595 
Fax: 
253-736-8647 
mailto:brian@icoding.com 
Re: 
Invitation to submit PHY Proposals 802.16.3-00/24 
Abstract 
A comparison of convolutional code based Turbo Codes (TCC) and Turbo Product Codes 
(TPC) is provided over a range of spectral efficiencies. 
Purpose 
To initiate a request for a more detailed proposal regarding the use of TCC for the physical 
layer of 802.16.3. 
Notice 
This document has been prepared to assist IEEE 802.16. It is offered as a basis for discussion 
and is not binding on the contributing individual(s) or organization(s). The material in this 
document is subject to change in form and content after further study. The contributor(s) 
reserve(s) the right to add, amend or withdraw material contained herein. 
Release 
The contributor grants a free, irrevocable license to the IEEE to incorporate text contained in 
this contribution, and any modifications thereof, in the creation of an IEEE Standards 
publication; to copyright in the IEEE’s name any IEEE Standards publication even though it 
may include portions of this contribution; and at the IEEE’s sole discretion to permit others to 
reproduce in whole or in part the resulting IEEE Standards publication. The contributor also 
acknowledges and accepts that this contribution may be made public by IEEE 802.16. 
Patent 
Policy and 
Procedures 
The contributor is familiar with the IEEE 802.16 Patent Policy and Procedures (Version 1.0) 
<http://ieee802.org/16/ipr/patents/policy.html>, including the statement “IEEE standards may 
include the known use of patent(s), including patent applications, if there is technical 
justification in the opinion of the standards-developing committee and provided the IEEE 
receives assurance from the patent holder that it will license applicants under reasonable terms 
and conditions for the purpose of implementing the standard.” 
Early disclosure to the Working Group of patent information that might be relevant to the 
standard is essential to reduce the possibility for delays in the development process and increase 
the likelihood that the draft publication will be approved for publication. Please notify the Chair 
<mailto:r.b.marks@ieee.org> as early as possible, in written or electronic form, of any patents 
(granted or under application) that may cover technology that is under consideration by or has 
been approved by IEEE 802.16. The Chair will disclose this notification via the IEEE 802.16 
web site <http://ieee802.org/16/ipr/patents/notices>. 

=====PAGE 2=====
2001-01-18 
IEEE 802.16.3c-01/14 
 
 
   
1
Comparison of Turbo-Convolutional Codes and Turbo Product Codes for 
QPSK-64QAM Channels 
Brian Edmonston 
iCODING Technology Incorporated  
1.0 
Summary 
 
A comparison of Turbo Convolutional Codes (TCC) and Turbo Product Codes (TPC) demonstrates that TCC 
provide the best forward error correction performance over the range of spectral efficiencies under consideration 
by 802.13.3.  Under the various functional requirements specified for 802.16.3, this greater forward error 
correction performance will translate into a more robust, high capacity, system. 
2.0 
Reference Model and Code Description 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. 
 
Turbo Coding is performed on the information to be transmitted and the resulting coded information is 
transmitted via the selection modulation scheme.  After demodulation, the resulting receive information is 
iteratively decoded and passed to the MAC layer.  
 
The encoding is performed according to the following diagram: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. 
 
Punctured rate range from rate 1/3 to rate 9/10, with a suggested set of rate being ½, 2/3, ¾, 5/6, and 8/9.  Other 
rate constituent codes may also be employed. 
 
3.0 
Relation to existing standards. 
 
The TCC scheme presented resembles the Turbo Codes used in 3GPP (W-CDMA) and 3GPP2 (CDMA2000) 
with some enhancements.  The enhancements include a generatable interleaver that provides both higher 
performance and which may be decoded in parallel for very high data rates.  Additionally, sixteen state 
TCC  TURBO 
ENCODING 
MODULATION
DEMOD- 
ULATION 
TCC TURBO 
DECODING 
FROM 
MAC 
TO 
MAC 
RATE ½ 
CONV. 
ENCODER 1 
PSEUDO 
RANDOM 
INTERLEAVER 
RATE ½ 
CONV. 
ENCODER 2 
PUNCTURE
INFORMATION 
BITS 
TO 
MODULATOR 

=====PAGE 3=====
2001-01-18 
IEEE 802.16.3c-01/14 
 
 
   
2
constituent codes have been selected.  It is believed that eight state codes will be suitable for the target BER’s, 
however, sufficient testing had not been performed at the time of submission. 
 
As 802.16.3 comes closer to selecting a modulation scheme some additional modifications to the code may be 
made based on the selected scheme and channel model. 
 
4.0 
Benefits of the Proposal 
 
Graph 1 provided below is a comparison of the spectral densities achieved for various code-modulation scheme 
combinations for TCC’s and TPC’s. As shown, the TCC provides superior error correction performance relative 
to TPC at virtually all operating points.  At the few operating points where the TCC scheme is not superior, it is 
virtually identical to the TPC.  With respect to the other codes proposed, including a different TPC scheme as 
well as trellis coded modulation, the performance gains of TCC is typically 3dB or more providing enormous 
performance gains in terms of data throughput, coverage area, and frequency reuse. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Figure 1. TCC v TPC Spectral Efficiency 
 
Higher spectral efficiency is demonstrated for TCC across virtually the entire area of interest.  
 
TCC v TPC Spectral Efficientcy for QPSK-64QAM @ 
BER1e-6 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
0
5
10
15
20
SNRAve (dB)
B/S/Hz
TPC
TCC
QPSK .45
QPSK .9
16QAM .45
16QAM .75
16QAM .875
64QAM .667
64QAM .88
64QAM .88

=====PAGE 4=====
2001-01-18 
IEEE 802.16.3c-01/14 
 
 
   
3
The TPC data is taken from 802.16.1c-00/45.  The frame size for the TCC is 15842 and the frame size for the 
TPC is listed at 16K.  Thus, the TCC used an ~ 3% smaller frame, which is to the advantage of the TPC. 
 
The TCC points were selected to maximize spectral efficiency for a given SNR, which is a specified requirement 
in Section 5.4 of the 802.16.3 functional requirements document.  It is assumed that 802.16.1c=00/45 did the 
same as it was submitted in response to the Initial PHY Proposal Call for Contributions (802.16.3-00/14). 
 
SNR vs. Spectral Efficiency graphs are an excellent method for evaluating the FEC portion of any PHY 
proposals, and we suggest that they be included in future PHY submissions where FEC is of particular interest. 
 
Although the final definition of 802.16.3 is unknown, the requirements document specifies the need for efficient 
frequency reuse. (Sections 2, 5, 5.9 and M3 as well as the evaluation criteria).  For systems dealing with 
frequency reuse issues powerful FEC coding has dramatic capacity effects.  This is because powerful FEC coding 
not only decreases the required SNR for the receiving system, but it also reduces the necessary transmit power of 
other systems thereby reducing the major source of jamming. This is why heavy frequency reuse schemes such as 
CDMA always employ the most powerful FEC available, and therefore selected a convolutional turbo code based 
solution.  (This does assume the use of some transmit power control mechanism such as that used in 802.16.1). 
 
Depending on the degree of frequency reuse, increases in system sensitivity can result in a corresponding 
increases in system performance.  That is, a 3dB increase in sensitivity will result in double the system capacity, 
and a 1dB increase in sensitivity will result in a 25% increase in system capacity.  While the level of reuse for 
802.16.3 will probably be less than that of a CDMA system, any significant degree of frequency reuse creates a 
strong incentive for powerful FEC. 
 
The performance increase of Turbo Convolutional Codes relative to TPC is most dramatic at lower code rates, 
although as demonstrated above the advantages are present over virtually all spectral densities.  This advantage at 
low code rates is particularly useful for small packets containing control information, for which error free 
transmission is of critical importantance.  In many instances it is important to provide extra high encoding for 
such control packets, and Turbo Convolutional Codes can provide more than 1dB Eb/No performance 
enhancement over TPC for these rates.  This eliminates the need to provide an alternative coding technique for 
control packets. 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes also present the lowest implementation risk.  By virtue of their use in various 
standards including 3GPP, 3GPP2 as well as DVB-RCS, Turbo Convolutional Codes will be the most widely 
known and used form of iterative codes.  The large numbers of papers and other documentation generated with 
respect to Turbo Convolutional Codes will ensure wide availability of TCC related devices and IP. 
 
5.0 
Drawbacks of the Proposal 
 
Iterative decoders are more complex than non-iterative decoders.  Therefore, the digital decoder portion of the 
receive system will be more costly for a turbo code based solution.  Overall, the total cost of the system should 
decrease due to savings in other areas such as amplifiers and other analog components.  Additionally, the 
increase in system capacity and coverage should increase value far in excess of the cost.  Actual device cost 
estimates can be provided upon request. 
 
The additional complexity of Turbo Decoder introduces between 1N-3N delay, where N transmit time of a frame. 
 For a minimum data rate of 2 Mbit/Sec a 16 Kbit frame can be transmitted in less than 20ms even with more 
than 2N delay.  An 8 Kbit frame may be used if rates less than 2Mbit/Sec are expected. 
 
 

=====PAGE 5=====
2001-01-18 
IEEE 802.16.3c-01/14 
 
 
   
4
6.0 
Intellectual Property 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes were invented by France Telecom and have been patented.  France Telecom has 
demonstrated willingness in the past to non-discriminatory licensing of Turbo Codes on reasonable terms and 
conditions.   
iCODING agrees to comply with the IEEE IPR policy should the final standard incorporate iCODING IPR. 
7.0 
PHY Evaluation Table 
 
1. 
Meets System Requirements 
 
The proposed TCC scheme provides the high spectral efficiency and frequency reuse, while also meeting 
the latency and other system requirements.  The coding scheme can be used with single carrier or OFDM 
modulation schemes.  We therefore submit that the applicable system requirements are met. 
 
2. 
Channel Spectrum Efficiency 
 
A set of proposed modulation-code rate combinations have been provided that provide the highest level 
of channel spectrum efficiency across most of the range of modulation scheme contemplated.  Spectral 
efficiency for 256QAM can be provided if our request for a more detailed submission is granted. 
 
3. 
Simplicity of Realization 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes have been adopted by several standards bodies for extremely high volume 
applications ensuring the widespread use and availability of Turbo Convolutional Code devices and 
Intellectual Property.  The adopting standards are for consumer based products, for which cost is of 
critical importance.   
 
In general, while iterative codes do provide additional cost in the area of the digital processing portion of 
the system, these costs are substantially offset by reductions in the performance requirements of other 
components including amplifiers as well as overall increases in system performance.   Thus, we believe 
the proposal meets the evaluation criteria. 
 
A. SS cost optimization 
 
The use of a turbo encoder in the SS could be used in a variety of ways.  One of which is to reduce 
overall SS cost by decreasing the necessary transmit power.   Alternatively, increases in data 
throughput or distance from the base station could be achieved.  The cost of a turbo encoder would 
have minimal impact on the SS cost. 
 
The use of a turbo decoder in the SS would add some cost to the SS.  Estimates of the cost for data 
rates of 100Mbit/Sec or less would be $20 (Assuming reasonable market penetration) initially, with 
that cost decreasing rapidly over time.  Thus, the proposal meets the SS cost optimization evaluation 
criteria. 
 
B. BS cost optimization 
 
The use of a turbo decoder in the base station would provide a modest increase in cost, but would 
allow the SS to transmit using less power.   
 

=====PAGE 6=====
2001-01-18 
IEEE 802.16.3c-01/14 
 
 
   
5
The use of turbo encoder(s) would add minimal cost to the base station, but it would allow for greater 
throughput capacity and lower transmit power.  Using lower transmit power will enable higher 
frequency reuse thereby increasing overall system capacity.  Thus, the proposal meets the BS 
optimization evaluation criteria. 
 
C. Installation Cost 
 
Turbo Codes should have no effect on installation costs 
 
 
4. 
Spectrum Resource Flexibility 
 
Turbo Codes of various rates have been proposed allowing for flexible resource usage.  Additionally, the 
turbo code can be easily configured for different frame sizes if necessary. 
 
5. 
System Spectrum Efficiency 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes provide the greatest reduction in the transmit power necessary for successful 
communications.  This in turn reduces cell-to-cell interference as well as interference between SS.  The 
reduction in interference allows for the highest level of frequency reuse and therefore overall system 
capacity. 
 
6. 
System Service Flexibility 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes can be configured for a wide range of frame length (and therefore latencies) 
as well as code rates.  Thus, turbo codes should not prevent introduction of new services. 
 
7. 
Protocol Interfacing Complexity 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes posses the same basic characteristics of other FEC coding techniques and 
therefore present no unique interface challenges.  The larger frame sizes typically used for Turbo 
Convolutional Codes may present some delay problem for control information so smaller and more 
highly coded control packets may be required. 
 
8. 
Reference System Gain 
 
More information about the chosen modulation scheme is necessary for system gain estimates, however, 
whatever scheme is chosen Turbo Convolutional Codes should enable that system to perform at the 
highest overall system performance. 
 
9. 
Robustness to Interference. 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes are able to withstand the highest level of noise and therefore should have the 
highest resistance to interference. 
 
10. 
Robustness to Channel Impairments. 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes typically degrade at least no worse than other coding scheme relative to 
channel impairments. 
 
11. 
Robustness to Radio Impairments. 
 

=====PAGE 7=====
2001-01-18 
IEEE 802.16.3c-01/14 
 
 
   
6
Turbo Convolutional Codes typically degrade at least no worse than other coding scheme relative to 
radio impairments. 
 
12. 
Support of Advanced Antenna Techniques 
 
Turbo Convolutional Codes typically benefit at least as well as other coding scheme relative to advanced 
antenna techniques. 
 
13. 
Compatibility with Existing Relevant Standards and Regulations 
 
The Turbo Convolutional Code proposed is from the same family of codes as that used in 3GPP and 
3GPP2, but has some enhancements which make it incompatible. 
 
8.0 
Misc 
 
Based on this submission, iCODING asks that: 
 
1. 
iCODING be requested to submit a more detailed proposal during the next 802.16 meeting. 
2. 
PHY proposals be asked to prepare SNR vs. Spectral Efficiency Graphs. 
 
